Want to turn your Whatnot live show into
a money-making machine. Whether you're
new or struggling to get sales, this
guide will help you master every part of
your show. From setup to sales
strategies, price tricks, and getting
repeat buyers, and at the end, I will
reveal a big mistake that could have
killed my profits. So, stick around.
Today you're going to learn how to set
up your whatnot live show the right way,
the best sales strategies to boost bids
and increase profits, how to keep
viewers engaged so they stay and buy
more. Why consistency matters and how to
grow repeat buyers. The biggest mistakes
sellers make that can cost hundreds of
dollars. And six extra tips that will
take your whatnot show to the next
level. Let's dive in. Number one, set up
your live show for success. If your live
show isn't set up properly, you'll
struggle to get sales. Here's how to
start out strong. Step one, open the
whatnot app and tap go live. Choose a
show title that stands out. For example,
$5 starts rare finds and deals. Step
three, select your auction type.
Standard, sudden death, or buy it now.
Step four, make sure your camera is
steady and the lighting is clear. Buyers
want to see the deals. And step five,
add a preview video or pen a message
into your show notes so your buyers know
what to expect. Here's a personal tip.
The first time I went live, I didn't
check my camera angle and half of my
items were out of frame. Now, I always
do a quick check before I start. You can
do this by going to your seller hub and
clicking on rehearsal mode. Number two,
engage with your viewers to keep them
watching. Most viewers decide in the
first minute whether they're going to
stay or leave. Here's a few tips to keep
them. Greet your viewers by name. People
love being acknowledged. Number two, ask
a question like, "What are you looking
for today?" to create interaction.
Number three, speak with energy. A dull
voice equals lost sales. And number
four, run giveaways early to boost
engagement. Free items brings you more
viewers. Story time. One time I ran a
giveaway at the start of my show and my
viewer count doubled. People stayed
hoping for more which led to higher
sales. Number three, pricing and sales
strategy to maximize profits.
Step one, start bids at competitive
prices. If an item is worth $50, don't
start it at $1 unless you have a big
enough audience. Step two, use time
pressure. For example, this deal is only
live for 30 seconds, guys. Step three,
bundle similar items to increase the
value of each sale. Step four, shout out
biders to create excitement. We got 25.
Who's going to take it to 30? Pro tip,
pausing before saying going once, going
twice, often triggers last minute bits.
Number four, consistency equals more
sales and repeat buyers. Step one, run
at least three to four shows per week so
people remember you. Step two, stick to
a schedule, same day, same time to build
a loyal audience. Step three, promote
your shows on social media beforehand.
And step four, use Whatnot's reminder
feature to notify your followers. And
step four, don't forget to tell your
followers to bookmark future shows
because they will get notified when you
go live. Fact, the top sellers on
whatnot aren't necessarily the ones with
the best products, but the ones who show
up consistently. Number five, knowing
your numbers to avoid losing money. Step
one, track your cost per item so you
never sell at a loss. Step two, check
eBay sold listings to see an item's true
market value. Step three, factor in
whatn not 8% plus processing fees. Step
four, use spreadsheets or whatnot
analytics to track profit margins. My
personal experience, at first I guessed
some of my numbers and lost some money,
but once I started tracking my costs, I
knew exactly how low I could go while
still making a profit. Number six,
optimize your background and setup. Step
one, a cluttered background distracts
buyers. Keep it clean and organized.
Step two, good lighting is key. A simple
ring light makes a huge difference. And
step three, use a sturdy phone or tripod
so your camera doesn't shake. Number
seven, tease your best items to build
hype. Step one, start your show by
hinting a high value item that you're
going to sell later in the show. Step
two, examples. For example, stick
around. At the end, I'll list a rare
collectible. Step three, keep viewers
engaged to prevent them from leaving too
soon. Number eight, create a sense of
urgency. Step one, say things like, "I
only have one of these. Once it's gone,
it's gone." Step two, utilize your time
limits wisely. You've got 15 seconds
before this deal disappears. Step three,
viewers vibe faster when they feel like
they might miss out on something. Number
nine, use pinned items and buy it now
listings. Step one, pin items to keep
your best products visible during your
live show. Step two, have buy it now
listings for impulse buyers who don't
like bidding. Step three, this helps
increase your total sales without having
to wait for the auction to end. Number
10, network with other whatnot sellers.
Step one, join whatnot communities to
connect with other sellers. Step two,
crossromote each other's shows for more
visibility. And step three, a strong
seller network leads to more buyers
discovering your stores. And finally,
number 11, review your live show data.
Step one, after your show, check
whatnot's analytics to see what sold
best. Step two, look at how long people
stayed and which items had the most
bids. Step three, use this information
to adjust prices and strategize for
future shows. And here is the biggest
mistake that I promised. Most new
sellers start their prices too high,
which scares off buyers. Whatnot is all
about fast sales. Start at a competitive
price, build hype, and let the bids take
care of the rest. Happy selling.